many have looked to ancient Chinese
medicine to cure disease but to enhance
athletic performance the swim team at
the University of Virginia has
discovered that the ancient form of
exercise known as Qi Gong has brought
them certain advantages it's really
helped my body to recover and prepare
for the next practice and it's helped me
in the water to be able to just feel
better and be able to sustain my efforts
for longer initially looking for a
competitive edge for his team coach Mark
Bernardino found that she gon keeps his
swimmers healthy when I first met John
and we first talked about implementing
some of his movements and some of his
philosophy and some of his theory into
the program I would tell you that I was
selfishly looking for an edge and when I
after my first few meetings with John he
volunteered to teach the entire coaching
staff she gone and we all decided we
would participate and we would learn and
we would spend a lot of time finding out
what the merits were for ourselves prior
to having the athletes go through it and
indeed every single coach was able to
gain major benefits for it from a health
perspective from a fitness perspective
from an ability to relax and reduce
stress in our daily lives so we felt it
was absolutely an edge that if we could
capture with our athletes that perhaps
it would be the kind of thing they could
bring to a meet to a tough competition
and have an edge that their competitors
don't have be do something that nobody
else was doing and use it to their
advantage and I think it has proven in
our case especially for the athletes
that have bought into it that enjoyed
doing it it's allowed them to stay
healthier swim faster and focus better
when the weather is getting colder and
then the training is going up you know
your body is your body's tired you're
not getting enough
sleep school is hard and then you're
you're like no such rigorous training
that your body's going to break down and
along with the coal it's really really
easy to get sick so we're trying to
prevent that when I was the first year I
was a little apprehensive you know the
whole Tai Chi thing I was like okay what
does have to do with swimming I'm not
really sure I don't know if I like this
but once you start doing it more and
more and you actually feel what he's
talking about and then it actually
affects you once you do it enough that's
when I first started to be like okay
well this actually works and I'm gonna
do this a lot it really it's really
helpful
John Alton a chi gong expert and
instructor in Charlottesville Virginia
leads the team in chi gong exercises for
three to four weeks sessions beyond his
sessions the swimmers continue their
movements to stay healthy
one person exercises to the level of
these swimmers exercise two it just
takes a very little bit for them to be
able to grab a hold of it on a different
level of consciousness and start using
it in a way that we consciously in the
West have never learned to do because we
have no real tradition of mind-body
exercise the mental benefit right now is
what's most for me but all it's
definitely something that is that you
can build on and have physical benefits
as well as mental benefits as you
progress in learning Tai Chi I'm a being
a foreman reporting
you